---
title: New in Version 0.10.456
number: 0.10.456
date: 2013-07-30
---

* Added ```typedefs``` for node handles and addresses,
  updated the interface and code to use these.
* Switched to one pool of nodes per forest,
  instead of one pool per level.
* Changed free list representation for node handles.
* The node storage mechanism is now loosely coupled,
  and may be selected at runtime.
* The node memory recycling mechanism is now loosely coupled.
  There are a few mechanisms to choose from.
* Added a new node storage mechanism that uses compression.
* Added ability to read and write DDs to a file.


### Simple Interface Changes

* The forest policy for specifying full vs sparse node storage has changed.
  Now, this is specified via ```storage_flags```
  by combining flags ```ALLOW_FULL_STORAGE```
  and ```ALLOW_SPARSE_STORAGE``` as appropriate.
* The node storage scheme may be changed on a per forest basis,
  at runtime, by setting the forest ```policy``` as appropriate
  (member ```nodestor```).
* Removed forest policy ```recycleNodeStorageHoles```,
  since the new policy ```nodestor``` 
  allows to specify how nodes are stored and how holes are
  tracked (if at all).
* In the ```forest``` class, added methods
    * ```writeEdges```, to write one or more edges
      (and all nodes below) to a file in a machine readable format
    * ```readEdges```, to read one or more edges
      (and all nodes below) from a file


### Expert Interface Changes

* The node storage interface has changed.
  This is likely to affect forest implementations, and not much else.
* Different node storage schemes are implemented in the
  ```storage``` subdirectory.
  Motivated users may invent and use their own schemes.
* In the ```expert_forest``` class, method ```reportMemoryUsage```
  has been replaced by method ```reportStats```.
* ```expert_forest::markNodesInSubgraph``` and
  ```expert_forest::showNodeGraph```
  now take an array of root nodes, instead of a single one.

