---
title: New in Version 0.17.7
shorttitle: Version 0.17.7
number: 0.17.7
date: 2025-01-23
---

### Interface Changes

* Added classes ```minterm``` and ```minterm_coll``` to deal
    with variable assignments and truth tables over sets and relations.
    Both of these are in ```minterms.h``` and ```minterms.cc```.

* Creating functions from single minterms or minterm collections
    is now done using methods ```minterm::buildFunction()```,
    ```minterm_coll::buildFunctionMax()```, and
    ```minterm_coll::buildFunctionMin()```.
    These methods allow specification of a default value,
    and in the case of minterm collections, specify how to
    deal with overlapping minterms in the collection
    (take the max or min value).
    These replace several ```forest::createEdge()``` methods,
    which are now deprecated.

* Function evaluation is now done through ```dd_edge::evaluate```.
    This replaces several ```forest::evaluate()``` methods,
    which are now deprecated.

* ```dd_edge::set()``` parameters are reversed, for consistency
    (edge value before node).

* Iterating through a function is now done using
    an instance of ```dd_edge::iterator```, created with
    ```dd_edge::begin()```.
  The interface is similar to STL iterators, except it is slightly
  faster to use the boolean operator than to compare with ```end()```,
  i.e., to use a loop of the form
  ```c++
  for (dd_edge::iterator I = e.begin(); I; ++I)
  ```
  You can pass a mask as a parameter to ```begin()```;
  this should be a pointer to a (const) ```minterm``` with values set to
    ```DONT_CARE``` for variables that are free to take any value,
    ```DONT_CHANGE``` for relation "to" variables that must equal
    their "from" counterpart, or a regular non-negative integer value
    to fix a variable.
  The old ```enumerator``` class is now deprecated.

* Old ```forest::getElement()``` is deprecated,
    in favor of ```dd_edge::getElement()```.

* Old ```forest::createEdge()``` for constant functions
    are deprecated, in favor of ```forest::createConstant()```.

### Implementation

* Updated minimum and maximum operations; works for all forest types.
  MINIMUM should be used instead of UNION for EV+MDDs,
  and MAXIMUM should be used instead of INTERSECTION for EV+MDDs.

* Added comparison operations for EV+ and EV*.

### Tests

* Most of these features are thoroughly tested in ```chk_minterms```
    and ```chk_mtcoll```.

